Fix iBob docs (#273)
neo4j/neo4j-documentation: cypher/cypher-docs/src/docs/graphgists/query-tuning/advanced-query-tuning-example.asciidoc

[[cypher-index-values-order]]
= Index Values and Order

[abstract]
--
This section describes some more subtle optimizations based on new native index capabilities
--

One of the most important and useful ways of optimizing Cypher queries involves creating appropriate indexes.
This is described in more detail in the section on '<<query-schema-index,Indexes>>', and demonstrated in the <<cypherdoc-basic-query-tuning-example,basic query tuning example>>.

> In summary an index will be based on the combination of a `Label` and a `property`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In summary, an index will be based on the combination of a `Label` and a `property`.
```

Any Cypher query that searches for nodes with a specific label and some predicate on the property (equality, range or existence) will be planned to use
the index if the cost planner deems that to be the most efficient solution.

> In order to benefit from some recent enhancements added to Neo4j 3.5, it is useful to understand when _index-backed property lookup_ and _index-backed order-by_ will come into play.

Reviewer: I don't know if it is the case already, but I think a link to this section from the "ORDER BY" clause page would be great. In this way, if people read that, they will know that Neo now supports index-backed ordering....

Reviewer: I suggest - for all cases (and there are a few) - that "index-backed order-by" be changed to "index-backed order by"

//table

=== Index-backed property-lookup

Now that we have a model of movies, actors and directors we can ask a question like 'find persons with the name Tom that acted in a movie':

[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]->(m:Movie) WHERE p.name STARTS WITH 'Tom'
RETURN p.name, count(m)
----

//table

We have asked the database to return all the actors with the first name 'Tom'. There are three of them _'Tom Cruise'_, _'Tom Skerritt'_ and _'Tom Hanks'_.

> In previous versions of Neo4j, the final clause `RETURN p.name` would cause the database to take the node `p` and lookup its properties and return the value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In previous versions of Neo4j, the final clause `RETURN p.name` would cause the database to take the node `p` and look up its properties and return the value
```

of the property `name`.

> In Neo4j 3.5 we can now leverage the fact that indexes store the property values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Neo4j 3.5, we can now leverage the fact that indexes store the property values.
```

In this case, it means that the names can be looked up directly from the index.
This allows Cypher to avoid the second call to the database to find the property, which can save time on very large queries.
If we profile the above query, we see that the `NodeIndexScan` in the Variables column contains `cached[p.name]`, which means that `p.name` is retrieved from the index.
We can also see that the `Projection` has no DB Hits, which means it does not have to access the database again.

[source, cypher]
----
PROFILE
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]->(m:Movie) WHERE p.name STARTS WITH 'Tom'
RETURN p.name, count(m)
----

//profile

> If we change the query, such that it cannot use an index any more, we will see that there will be no `cached[p.name]` in the Variables, and that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we change the query, such that it can no longer use an index, we will see that there will be no `cached[p.name]` in the Variables, and that the
```

`Projection` now has DB Hits, since it accesses the database again to retrieve the name.

[source, cypher]
----
PROFILE
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]->(m:Movie)
RETURN p.name, count(m)
----

//profile

It is important to note, however, that not all property types are supported, because not all have been ported to the new native index.
In addition some property types, like the spatial type `Point`, are indexed in an index that is designed to be approximate and cannot return the values.

> For non-native indexes and the spatial type `Point`, there will still be a second DB access to retrieve those values. In indexes with mixed values,

Reviewer: New sentence on a new line

> only those values that cannot be lookup up from the index will trigger another database access, while the other values will not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only those values that cannot be looked up from the index will trigger another database access action, while the other values will not.
```

* <<operations-manual#index-configuration-index-providers, Index providers and property types>>
* <<operations-manual#index-configuration-upgrade-considerations, Index configuration upgrade considerations>>

Predicates that can be used to enable this optimization are:

* Existance (`WHERE exists(n.name)`)
* Equality (e.g. `WHERE n.name = 'Tom Hanks'`)
* Range (eg. `WHERE n.uid > 1000 AND n.uid < 2000`)
* Prefix (eg. `WHERE n.name STARTS WITH 'Tom'`)
* Suffix (eg. `WHERE n.name ENDS WITH 'Hanks'`)
* Substring (eg. `WHERE n.name CONTAINS 'a'`)

=== Index-backed order-by

Now consider the following refinement to the query:

[source, cypher]
----
MATCH (p:Person)-[:ACTED_IN]->(m:Movie) WHERE p.name STARTS WITH 'Tom'
RETURN p.name, count(m) ORDER BY p.name
----

//table

We are asking for the results in ascending alphabetical order. The new native index happens to store the String properties in ascending alphabetical order, and Cypher knows this.
In Neo4j 3.4 and earlier, Cypher would plan a `Sort` operation to sort the results, which means building a collection in memory and running a sort algorithm on it.

> For large result sets this can be expensive in both memory and time. In Neo4j 3.5, if you are using the native index, Cypher will recognise that the index already

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For large result sets this can be expensive in terms of both memory and time. 
In Neo4j 3.5, if you are using the native index, Cypher will recognise that the index already
```

returns data in the correct order, and skip the `Sort` operation.

However, indexes storing values of the spatial type `Point` and non-native indexes cannot be relied on to return the values in the correct order.

> This means that for Cypher to enable this optimization the query needs a predicate that limits the type of the property to some type that is guaranteed to be in the right order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This means that for Cypher to enable this optimization, the query needs a predicate that limits the type of the property to some type that is guaranteed to be in the right order.
```

To demonstrate this effect, let's remove the String prefix predicate so that Cypher no longer knows the type of the property, and replace it with an existence predicate.

> Now the database can no longer guarantee the order. If we profile the query we will see the `Sort` operation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the database can no longer guarantee the order. 
If we profile the query we will see the `Sort` operation:
```

//profile

> We can also see a new column in the profile, that was added in Neo4j 3.5: `Order`. This column describes the order of rows after each operator. We see that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can also see a new column in the profile, that was added in Neo4j 3.5: `Order`. 
This column describes the order of rows after each operator. 
We see that
```

> the order is undefined until the Sort operator. Now if we add back the predicate that gives us the property type information,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the order is undefined until the `Sort` operator. 
Now if we add back the predicate that gives us the property type information,
```
